# Menus-App
This app takes in an image of a plate of food, identifies and segments the food in the plate, and outputs the nutritional information of the plate based on data taken from Purdue's dining services. The data collection code, which is in this repository, makes 20 threads of "scrapers" to crawl through Purdue's dining API and store that data in a JSON file. As of the time I am writing this, there are over 1000 food items and their corresponding nutritional data inside this JSON file. The item reading code employs two models: it uses the CLIP model by OpenAI to shortlist the 1000 food labels into the 10 foods most likely to be in the image, and then the GroundingDINO model attempts to identify those 10 foods and boxes & annotates the food with sufficient confidence. 

The CLIP model is used first because the only expensive procedure is the generation of the label embeddings, which have already been stored. It provides an extremely fast shortlisting of the foods on the plate, but is unable to give information on their location and is slightly error-prone. The GroundingDINO, which is significantly slower, will draw the boxes and will take significantly less time to draw boxes for 10 labels rather than the original 1000. Note that this last step usually takes 15-20 seconds, as even the lightest GroundingDINO model that is used here is computationally intensive. 

As of right now, the best way to use this is to download this repository and type the command "pip install -r requirements.txt" in the terminal before pressing enter. Then the command "streamlit run FoodItemReader.py" in the terminal and enter to run the app, note that initially loading time will be 15-20 seconds because the CLIP and GroundingDINO models will take time to be loaded into memory. 
